# IOT-based-Health-Monitoring-System-for-Elderly
The health of our loved ones are always our area of concern especially when they are in a their old age. Our family is important to us we may not be living close to them and knowing their whereabouts always concerns us. The solution to this could be arranging for a nurse which will remind them to take medicines, give us daily updates, give us their health statistics and alert us in time of need. But this is not always possible and is not a consistent method for reporting health conditions, location and alerting. Using an hardware equipment to deal with problem creates with problem of sharing and alerting user associated data. Therefore I have in my project tried to tackle this problem by creating a health monitoring system for elderly with various functionalities in order to communicate useful information to a family member automatically like body stats, medicine history, location and alerts. The proposed solution deals with the problem by creating a microcontroller based system with sensors to read users body temperature and heart rate and upload this data to a clous platform. Also if the sensor values suggest some abnormal conditions automatic triggers will send alerts in the form of e-mails to the user’s family member. Supporting this are two android applications which will enable user to see visualization of his uploaded data in form of graphs, share his location in the form of longitude and latitude, sending email alerts when the daily alarm is set-off and reminding of medicinal schedule along with saving it in a cloud platform that can be shared as an excel file, also an web application has been developed to inform user of his heart risk status based on his statistics and data. All these functionalities enable a constant and regular mode of information flow between the user and his family enabling both of them to be more aware of the health status of the user.
